docs: IA Phase 2 (P0): add Connect "Connection health & troubleshooting" page (#721)
Promptless/docs: src/content/docs/docs/connect/connection-health.mdx

---
title: Connection health & troubleshooting
description: Check the health of your Promptless integrations, recognize when a connection has gone stale, and reconnect or refresh it so triggers, context, and publishing keep working.
slug: docs/connect/connection-health
sidebar:
  hidden: false
  order: 24
  label: Connection health
---
import { Aside } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

> Every integration you connect—triggers, context sources, and publishing—depends on an authorization that Promptless holds on your behalf. When that authorization lapses, the integration stops working quietly: no error lands in your inbox, so the first sign is usually work that simply isn't happening. This page shows you where to check the state of your connections and how to restore one that has gone stale.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every integration you connect depends on an authorization that Promptless holds on your behalf. When that authorization lapses, the integration stops working quietly. No error lands in your inbox, so the first sign is usually work that simply isn't happening. This page shows you where to check the state of your connections and how to restore one that has gone stale.
```

## Where to check connection health

Organization administrators manage every connected integration from the [integrations page](https://app.gopromptless.ai/integrations) in the Promptless dashboard. Each integration has a card that shows its connection status and authentication state, along with controls to reconnect, refresh, or disconnect it.

> When a connection needs attention, its card flags the problem so you can act on it. A Slack card whose permissions are out of date shows a **Needs reconnect** flag, and a Linear card whose tokens have expired shows a **Reconnect required** warning. Whenever an integration seems to have stopped working, open the integrations page first—the card tells you whether the connection itself is the cause.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a connection needs attention, its card flags the problem so you can act on it. For example, a Slack card whose permissions are out of date shows a **Needs reconnect** flag. Whenever an integration seems to have stopped working, open the integrations page first—the card tells you whether the connection itself is the cause.
```

<Aside type="note">

> The integrations page and its reconnect, refresh, and disconnect controls are available to organization administrators. If you're not an admin—for example, a writer or engineer who noticed suggestions drop off—flag the integration to your Promptless administrator so they can check and reconnect it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The integrations page and its reconnect, refresh, and disconnect controls are available to organization administrators. If you're not an admin, flag the integration to your Promptless administrator so they can check and reconnect it.
```

- **Triggers** are how events reach Promptless. If a trigger integration loses access, Promptless stops receiving its events, so no new suggestions come from that source—even when the rest of your setup looks healthy. Check for a lapsed connection whenever an expected suggestion never appears.
- **Context sources** are [read-only](/docs/connect/context-sources) and optional. If a context source loses access, Promptless still creates suggestions, but it can no longer pull in the background that source provided, so those suggestions draw on less context than usual.
- **Publishing** to GitHub needs an active connection with repository access. Without it, your repositories don't appear in the dropdown when you set up a doc collection, and Promptless has nowhere to open documentation pull requests.

<Aside type="tip">
During a pilot, a healthy stream of suggestions is a signal that Promptless is plugged into the right parts of your workflow. If that stream dries up, confirm your trigger integrations are still connected before assuming the problem is elsewhere. See [Run a pilot](/docs/start-here/run-a-pilot) for more on reading suggestion volume.
</Aside>

> ## Reconnect or refresh an integration

Reviewer: Drop this whole section. I'd rather keep the process generalized than specify the exact button strings users should expect.

</details>

<details>
<summary>No repositories appear when creating a doc collection</summary>

If the repository dropdown shows "No options," connect GitHub first from the [integrations page](https://app.gopromptless.ai/integrations). If GitHub is already connected but repositories are missing, grant Promptless access to those specific repositories in your GitHub organization settings. See [GitHub repos (docs as code)](/docs/connect/doc-locations/github-repos#frequently-asked-questions) for the full flow.

</details>

<details>
<summary>Slack diff files or link previews stopped working</summary>

When a Slack feature stops working, your workspace is usually missing a permission that a newer version of Promptless needs. Click **Reconnect** on the connected Slack card to approve the current permissions. See [Slack troubleshooting](/docs/reference/integrations/slack#troubleshooting) for the specific permissions behind attached diff files and link previews.

</details>

## When to contact support

> If a card doesn't show a reconnect option, reconnecting doesn't resolve the problem, or you're unsure which integration is at fault, reach the Promptless team at [help@gopromptless.ai](mailto:help@gopromptless.ai). See [Getting help](/docs/reference/getting-help) for every way to get in touch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a card doesn't show a reconnect option, reconnecting doesn't resolve the problem, or you're unsure which integration is at fault, contact the Promptless team at [help@gopromptless.ai](mailto:help@gopromptless.ai). See [Getting help](/docs/reference/getting-help) for every way to get in touch.
```
